Solving the problem of dublicate developers in open-source repositories
A Case Study on Homebrew

Abstract

this report analyzes author aliasing in Homebrew Git repository using 
the Bird heuristic as a baseline and improves on it by introducing a hybrid 
method incorporating GPT4All for distinguishing between false positives
identified by bird. The analysis follows the Bird heuristic that is
outlined in (Bird et al., 2006) paper. Analysis shows that the Bird 
heuristic achieves good recall, but at the same time it suffers from
high false positive rate. In this study it was (95.67%). The proposed LLM
approach significantly reduces the false positives while succefully identifying
the true positives.

Project Description

Homebrew is an open-source package manager for macOS and Linux. It has been active
for a long time and is maintained via GitHub. The project has 1,048 contributors and 
the collected data included all the contributors names and emails. After collection 
the Bird heuristic was applied with different T values and 0.99 produced the least ammount
of dublicates which was around 4000. out of these 4000 pairs about 1300 were manually analyzed. The result after Bird heuristic were disapointing with 
95.67% false positive rate. Although it was able to also find the dublicates. 
Observed issues with Bird heuristic included issues with common names such as Adam Smith and with 
non-latin names like Abi أب . 

Proposed method for improving accuracy.

To mitigate Bird's weaknesses a hybrid approach was developed. This method invoved first
running the heuristic and generating a csv file with all the dublicate pairs. After the this
the generated csv file was verified line by line with a python script using GPT4All library and 
a mistral-7b model. The model was given a prompt "
Given the following two developer records, tell me if they belong to the SAME PERSON.
Answer ONLY with 'SAME' or 'DIFFERENT'.

Record 1:
Name: {name1}
Email: {email1}

Record 2:
Name: {name2}
Email: {email2}
"
This approach preserves Bird’s efficiency while reducing the resource-intensive 
load of the second phase.

Results of the new method.

Applying the GPT4All-assited heuristic to the collected data we get 55 of the 57 positives.
This method effectively removed all problems identified with Bird. A challenge for this method is 
that on slow hardware it takes a considerable ammount of time.

Compare the results between different analyzed projects. Were there
differences between projects that affected the performance of either
method?.